Codewars - Achieve mastery through coding practice and developer mentorship For Companies For Educators Log In Sign Up Achieve mastery through challenge Improve your development skills by training with your peers using coding challengesSign Up To join you must first prove your skills. Choose your language to begin... Clojure CoffeeScript C Coq C++ C# Crystal Dart Elixir F# Go Groovy Haskell Java JavaScript Kotlin Lean Lua NASM PHP Python Racket Ruby Rust Scala Shell SQL Swift TypeScript Additional Languages *These languages are currently in beta. Once you enlist you will have an opportunity to train with them. Sharpen your skills Challenge yourself on kata, which are small coding exercises. Each kata is crafted by the community to help you strengthen different coding skills. Master your current language of choice, or expand your understanding of a new one. Get Instance Feedback Solve the kata with your coding style right in the browser and use test cases (TDD) to check it as you progress. Retrain with new, creative, and optimized approaches. Get the most out of your programming practice. Earn ranks and honor Kata are ranked all the way from beginner code challenges to expert level. As you complete higher ranked kata, you progress through the ranks, pushing your software development skills to your highest potential. Tap into the collective wisdom Compare your solution with others after each kata for greater understanding. Discuss the kata, best practices, and innovative techniques with the community. Have your mind blown by how differently others tackle the same problem as you. 🤯 Create your own kata Author kata that focus on your interests and train specific skill sets. Challenge the community with your insight and code understanding. Create everything from common developer interview questions to challenges that push the limits of your creativity. Gain honor as a sensei within the coding dojo. Community love "I swear, @codewars is better than college" Martin Genev@cyberseer "Perfect Execution Codewars" Kevin Granger@Kevin_Granger "I forgot to eat dinner, because I was on @codewars. This is addictive" Raf Szalansky@szalansky "@codewars. Extremely well done and an excellent example of mastery learning" Ahmed Omran@this_ahmedJoin Us Brought to you by Accelerate your technical hiring, upskilling, and certifications with the most advanced coding assessment platform. Learn More © 2022 Codewars About API Announcements Privacy Terms Contact Confirm Cancel Confirm Collect: kata Loading collection data... Add To My Collections View Remove Add You have not created any collections yet. Collections are a way for you to organize kata so that you can create your own training routines. Every collection you create is public and automatically sharable with other warriors. After you have added a few kata to a collection you and others can train on the kata contained within the collection. Get started now by creating a new collection. You must wait until you have earned at least 20 honor before you can create new collections. Set the name for your new collection. Remember, this is going to be visible by everyone so think of something that others will understand. Create & Add New Collection